[Home](README.md) - [Code Review](CodeReview.md) - [Software Engineering and Design](SoftwareEngineering_Design.md) - [Data Structures and Algorithms](DataStructures_Algorithms.md) - [Databases](Database.md)

# CS-499 Computer Science Capstone
# Self Assessment
  Before I started my bachelor's degree, and after I got my associates I decided I could skip going to school and teach myself everything. I spent about a year learning multiple languages, creating little projects here and there, and even published a few applications. Throughout that process I never felt like I truly understood what I had learned. Call it imposter syndrome, but there was just so much that I didnt know. I decided to go back to school and finish my degree at Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU) after not having any luck with landing a job. Soon after starting the computer science program, I saw just how much I didnt know. I learned not jsut how to code, but about data structures and system architecture. I learned about development techniques like scrum and agile. I finally felt like I had all of the pieces to the puzzle that is computer science. Now that I am standing before the finish line, I am more confident in my abilities pertaining to computer science. I know more about the structure of different coding languages like C++, Java, and even legacy. All of this experience I have gained has prepared me for the job field in ways I never could have done if I were self-taught. 
  
  While my degree was online, I still collaborated in almost every course in the program. Through discussions and assignments, I communicated with fellow students on important topics like current and emerging trends, data science, and even hacking. Being exposed to all of these different ideas around the same subject has given me experience and perspective I could'nt have gotten anywhere else. This experiece has served me well in boosting my confidence as a software developer, and by preparing me for collaboration in the job field. Stakeholders, companies, or whoever is in charge will require prompt and descriptive communication and this program has more than prepared me for that. Below are the 3 artifacts I will be showcasing in this portfolio, and the core principles they directly relate to. 

### [Software Engineering & Design](SoftwareEngineering_Design.md)
  Software engineering and design is the topic that directly relates to the design of an application. This means things like UI/UX design, file structure and organization, and overall flow of a program. As mentioned earlier, I had experience creating multiple applications before the computer science program. As I progressed through the course, I slowly undertood design from a different angle. This artifact for this topic will showcase my knowledge that I have attained throughout. 
  
  This artifact originally a mobile application I created in Java using Android Studio. I created it in CS 360: Mobile Architecture and Programming. The application allows a user to log in with their credentials, and you will access an inventory where you can manage items and their amount. The app would allow you to add or delete items, modify the item count, and notify you when an item got low. 
### [Data Structures & Algorithms](DataStructures_Algorithms.md)
  Data structures and algorithms is a topic that relates the effeciency of an application. How fast or slow a program loads data, how accurate or quick a search query is, or even how much memory or workload is put on a computer. 
  
  The database artifact was originally a binary search tree algorithm built in C++, and was rebuilt in the Java language. I created this algorithm in CS 260: Data Structures and Algorithms. The algorithm allowed you to interact with the functionality by terminal. The program first reads a .csv file, parses it and organizes it into the tree, and then allows you to interact with the data. Users can print the contents, search for a specific item, and delete an item as well. Lastly, the effeciency of the algoritm is printed to the console in BigO notation.
### [Database](Database.md)
  Database is a topic that relates to the "back end" of applications. They usually store all of the applications data and provide API calls for moving or changing that data. Databases go hand-in-hand with security, so in my next artifact all of that will be showcased. 
  
  This artifact also used the inventory application from the first artifact. In the back end, the database was optimized to differenciate between users, as well as add details to the inventory items. This involved restructuring the current database and updating the API calls that interacted with them.
